Improving the Mail configuration section (#427)
WordPress/Advanced-administration-handbook: server/mail.md

If your WordPress site is on managed hosting, there is typically nothing extra that needs to be done to send emails, but some additional actions to ensure deliverability as explained below may be required. Mail originating from your WordPress install should work out-of-the-box. All mailing related questions should be directed to your webhost, and you may want to check if the host provides the option to configure a SMTP relay through their admin panel.

If you're on a self-managed hosting platform (i.e. running your own server), there are typically three ways you can setup your mail service:

- **Setup a local MTA or a dedicated mail server that can send mail directly**. With this method, you as the admin are responsible for everything. Please keep in mind that even if you've configured all of the related software correctly, you may still run into issues, as mail deliverability extends into factors outside of your control, such as IP reputation. Due to the amount of overhead and ongoing maintenance required, this method is typically reserved for server administrators with experience in this field, because of the potential to run into serious deliverability troubles.

> - **Setup a local MTA and have it relay mail to a third party mailing service**. This is the recommended method for most self-hosted setups because it is easier to implement than the previous one, and still retains compatibility with WordPress' philosophy. If you don't want to deal with the complexity of mail deliverability issues in running your full MTA, this is way to go. In fact, some smaller web hosts utilize this method (they would hold a business account with the third party mailing services and relay all the mails to the mailing service). If you host and manage your own site and you are sending a sizable number of emails through WordPress, this method is also ideal, as you delegate the responsibility to the third party mailing service. Like the first method, Be aware that this option is not exempt of risks, as explained in the next section. Setting up your MTA always requires some level of server management expertise, even if you are relying on a third party mailing service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Setup a local MTA and have it relay mail to a third party mailing service**. This is the recommended method for most self-hosted setups because it is easier to implement than the previous one, and still retains compatibility with WordPress' philosophy. If you don't want to deal with the complexity of mail deliverability issues in running your full MTA, this is way to go. In fact, some smaller web hosts utilize this method (they would hold a business account with the third party mailing services and relay all the mails to the mailing service). If you host and manage your own site and you are sending a sizable number of emails through WordPress, this method is also ideal, as you delegate the responsibility to the third party mailing service. Like the first method, be aware that this option is not exempt of risks, as explained in the next section. Setting up your MTA always requires some level of server management expertise, even if you are relying on a third party mailing service.
```

### Windows Host Server Specific

Check your “Relay” settings on the SMTP Virtual Server. Grant access to `127.0.0.1` . Then in your `php.ini` file, set the `SMTP` setting to the same IP address. Also set `smtp_port` to `25`.

On a Windows machine, try a sendmail emulator like [Fake sendmail for Windows with TLS v1.2 support](https://github.com/sendmail-tls1-2/main).

### Alternative Solutions to MTA Setup

If you do not want to manually setup a complete MTA in your box, there are some other options:

* Use a relay MTA in place of a local full-featured MTA: for example, [msmtp-mta](https://wiki.debian.org/msmtp) is a simplified MTA that can be used to relay emails using a remote SMTP server (i.e. a remote MTA). The package provides a `/usr/sbin/sendmail` symlink to `msmtp` and has sendmail compatible interface that other software can use directly.  

> * Use SMTP plugins: You can install [SMTP plugins](https://wordpress.org/plugins/search/smtp/) from the WP.org plugin directory. These type of plugins overrides `wp_mail()` default settings to use PHPMailer or any other mailing library of their choice, which utlize remote third party mailing services to send mail on your behalf of your domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use SMTP plugins: You can install [SMTP plugins](https://wordpress.org/plugins/search/smtp/) from the WP.org plugin directory. These type of plugins override `wp_mail()` default settings to use PHPMailer or any other mailing library of their choice, which utlize remote third party mailing services to send mail on your behalf of your domain.
```

### Ensuring Deliverability

Once we have our system sending mails, we need to ensure that they are actually delivered to the recipients. There are a few things we need to check:

#### Ensure Proper Return Address is Used

> By default, the WordPress wrapper fills in the `From:` field with `wordpress@example.com` and the `From:` name as *WordPress*. This is fine if this is a valid e-mail address. For example, if your domain is `example.com`, your host shall pass `wordpress@example.com` on for delivery. It will probably send your mail as long as `example.com` is setup to send and receive mail, even if `wordpress` is not a valid mailbox. Some old mail delivery agents will check if the `From:` address is valid and can receive mails. This check is becoming less common nowadays, but we recommend to make sure to use a valid email address and the mailbox exists in your receiving mail server. If you are using the default `From:` address, simply verify that you can receive mail in the `wordpress@example.com` mailbox. Remember that `example.com` is the domain of your WordPress installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the WordPress wrapper fills in the `From:` field with `wordpress@example.com` and the `From:` name as *WordPress*. This is fine if this is a valid e-mail address. For example, if your domain is `example.com`, your host will pass `wordpress@example.com` on for delivery. It will probably send your mail as long as `example.com` is setup to send and receive mail, even if `wordpress` is not a valid mailbox. Some old mail delivery agents will check if the `From:` address is valid and can receive mail. This check is becoming less common nowadays, but we recommend to make sure to use a valid email address and the mailbox exists in your receiving mail server. If you are using the default `From:` address, simply verify that you can receive mail in the `wordpress@example.com` mailbox. Remember that `example.com` is the domain of your WordPress installation.
```

But if you don't want to send the emails from the same domain as the one exhibited in your installation then you must introduce some code changes in your WordPress. For example, if your WP domain is `example.org` but you want to send the emails from `mail.example.org` the mail may not send because the DNS records of `example.org` might not authorize its mails to be handled by your mail server, because the default `From:` address will be `wordpress@wordpress.org`. To change the default `From:` address, your wordpress can [use the `wp_mail_from` filter](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/wp_mail_from/). For the name, you can use [the `wp_mail_from_name` filter](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/wp_mail_from_name/). 

Also be aware that you can also force the `From:` address configuration in your configured MTA server. Refer to the related documentation for your MTA.

#### The Reply-To Address

> The WordPress wrapper ignores the `Reply-To:`, so it will be coincidental with the `From:` address, following the example above, `wordpress@example.com` by default. If you want your users to be able to reply to your mails make sure that this mailbox exists in your receiving mail server. The default `Reply-To:` is always going to be the same as the `From:` address unless you explicitly set it to a different address in the mail headers. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The WordPress wrapper ignores the `Reply-To:`, so it will be coincidental with the `From:` address, following the example above, `wordpress@example.com` by default. If you want your users to be able to reply to sent emails, make sure that this mailbox exists on your receiving mail server. The default `Reply-To:` is always going to be the same as the `From:` address, unless you explicitly set it to a different address in the mail headers. 
```

There is only one scenario where the `Reply-To:` address is set automatically: when we are sending an email to a user that commented on a post. In this case, the `Reply-To:` address will be set to the email address that the commenter explicitely specified.

### Troubleshooting Spam Deliverability Issues

Your email message may have been routed to a spam folder or even worse, simply discarded as malicious. There are a couple measures you can use to convince recipient’s mail servers that your message is legitimate and should be delivered as addressed. Setting up SPF, DKIM and DMARC is critical nowadays to ensure deliverability. There are multiple guides online that will help you set up these records. Here we are going to explain why you should take care of them.

#### SPF (Sender Policy Framework)

> This is the most common anti-spam measure used. The MDA checks the SPF record of the sender's domain to see if it is authorized to send mail for that domain. The SPF is a TXT DNS record that you need to add or check if your hosting has added it for you, that lists the IP addresses or hostnames that are authorized to send mail for that domain. This ensures that the mail is not coming from an unauthorized source. So for example, if an unknown server IP address sends an email with your domain name in the `From:` field, thanks to the SPF DNS record, the MDA will reject the mail as spam. But if you don't configure this properly in your DNS records, your mails will be also rejected as spam.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the most common anti-spam measure used. The MDA checks the SPF record of the sender's domain to see if it is authorized to send mail for that domain. The SPF is a TXT DNS record that you need to add, or check if your host has added it for you, that lists the IP addresses or hostnames authorized to send mail for that domain. This ensures that the mail is not coming from an unauthorized source. So, for example, if an unknown server IP address sends an email with your domain name in the `From:` field, thanks to the SPF DNS record, the MDA will reject the mail as spam. But if you don't configure this properly in your DNS records, your emails may also be rejected as spam.
```

Just remember, if you are sending emails through different servers, including your WordPress installation, you need to add all the addresses to the SPF record.

#### DKIM (Domain Key Identified Mail)

> This antispam integrity authentication check has gain a lot of traction in the last few years and has been implemented by most major email providers. You can use both SPF and DKIM in the same message. Again, just as with SPF, you can check if your receiving mailserver verified your host’s domain key by examining the mail header. Also as with SPF, if you can edit your TXT DNS records and the mail server belongs to your domain, you can set up DKIM credentials yourself. If you are in a managed environment, check with your hosting provider if they have set this up for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This anti-spam integrity authentication check has gained a lot of traction in the last few years, and has been implemented by most major email providers. You can use both SPF and DKIM in the same message. Again, just as with SPF, you can check if your receiving mailserver verified your host’s domain key by examining the mail header. As with SPF, if you can edit your TXT DNS records, you can set up DKIM credentials yourself. If you are in a managed hosting environment, check with your hosting provider if they have set this up for you, as it is common practice.
```

> In case you have to manage this by yourself, to send the right DKIM signature in your email there are multiple methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have to manage this by yourself, there are multiple methods to send the right DKIM signature in your emails:
```
